Release notes for 2.5.0 (#5181)
geodynamics/aspect: contrib/release/release-tasklist.md

      https://community.geodynamics.org/c/aspect
      dealii@googlegroups.com

## List of prior release notes

Announcement for 2.5.0 (July 8, 2023)
-----------------------------------------
We are pleased to announce the release of ASPECT 2.5.0. ASPECT is the Advanced
Solver for Problems in Earth's ConvecTion. It uses modern numerical methods such
as adaptive mesh refinement, multigrid solvers, and a modular software design to
provide a fast, flexible, and extensible mantle convection solver. ASPECT is
available from

                   https://aspect.geodynamics.org/

and the release is available from

        https://geodynamics.org/resources/aspect

and

        https://github.com/geodynamics/aspect/releases/tag/v2.5.0

Among others this release includes the following significant changes:

- ASPECT now includes version 0.5.0 of the Geodynamic World Builder.
  (Menno Fraters and other contributors)

- ASPECT's manual has been converted from LaTeX to Markdown to be hosted as a

>   website on https://aspect-documentation.readthedocs.io.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  website at https://aspect-documentation.readthedocs.io.
```
?

  (Chris Mills, Mack Gregory, Timo Heister, Wolfgang Bangerth, Rene
  Gassmoeller, and many others)

- New: ASPECT now requires deal.II 9.4 or newer.
  (Rene Gassmoeller, Timo Heister)

- ASPECT now supports a DebugRelease build type that creates a debug build and
  a release build of ASPECT at the same time.  It can be enabled by setting the
  CMake option CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE to DebugRelease or by typing "make debugrelease".
  (Timo Heister)

> - ASPECT now has a CMake option ASPECT_INSTALL_EXAMPLES that allows to build

Reviewer 2: The correct use of the phrase is "allows <noun>" where the noun can be "doing". 
```suggestion
- ASPECT now has a CMake option ASPECT_INSTALL_EXAMPLES that allows building
```

  and install all cookbooks and benchmarks. ASPECT now additionally installs
  the data/ directory. Both changes are helpful for installations that are used
  for teaching and tutorials.
  (Rene Gassmoeller)

- Changed: ASPECT now releases the memory used for storing initial conditions
  and the Geodynamic World Builder after model initialization unless an
  owning pointer to these objects is kept. This reduces the memory footprint
  for models initialized from large data files.
  (Wolfgang Bangerth)

- Added: Various helper functions to distinguish phase transitions for
  different compositions and compositional fields of different types.

>   (Bob Myhill, 2023/01/19)

Reviewer: You deleted dates for other entries but not here it seems.

>   (Bob Myhill, 2023/01/19)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (Bob Myhill)
```

- Added: The 'adiabatic' initial temperature plugin can now use a spatially
  variable top boundary layer thickness read from a data file or specified as a
  function in the input file. Additionally, the boundary layer temperature can
  now also be computed following the plate cooling model instead of the
  half-space cooling model.
  (Daniel Douglas, John Naliboff, Juliane Dannberg, Rene Gassmoeller)

- New: ASPECT now supports tangential velocity boundary conditions with GMG for
  more geometries, such as 2D and 3D chunks.
  (Timo Heister, Haoyuan Li, Jiaqi Zhang)

- New: Phase transitions can now be deactivated outside a given temperature
  range specified by upper and lower temperature limits for each phase

>   transition. This allows to implement complex phase diagrams with transitions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  transition. This allows implementing complex phase diagrams with transitions
```
